# Solutions

## Bell ringer

1. MakeCode Arcade has a built-in value that is displayed in the top-left corner of the screen.\
a. What is that value?

    The variable represents the player’s life. When it reaches zero (or goes below zero), the game automatically ends.

    b. What are different ways that value could be used in a game?

    While it’s named life, the variable is under our control. Because the icon can be changed, we could use it for anything. An alternate use is to display the current level.
1. MakeCode Arcade has a built-in value that is displayed in the top-right corner of the screen.
   
    a. What is that value?

    The variable represents the player’s score.

    b. What are different ways that value could be used in a game?

    A player’s score can have different meanings, depending on the type of game. MakeCode Arcade automatically keeps track of high scores in a game.

1. What are other built-in values that MakeCode Arcade uses?\
Enlist examples from a few students. The list will not be exhaustive, so do not spend more than a minute or two. Examples include:

    a. Background image\
    b. Sound effects\
    c. Screen dimensions\
    d. Countdown timer

    Students might mention sprites, and that is great! Sprites are variables, since the programmer needs to create them first before they can be used. However, sprites have a lot of built-in values that MakeCode Arcade automatically tracks and can be manipulated by the programmer. If students follow this path, then pursue it. Examples include:

    a. Position (stored as two properties, x and y)\
b. Speed (vx and vy)\
c. Acceleration (ax and ay)\
d. Image

    The important thing for students to get from this is that MakeCode Arcade creates a lot of values for you automatically.
