Instruction
There is no Bell Ringer planned for the day.
Use the PowerPoint and talking notes in the Notes section of the slides to lead a discussion about programming languages.
Optionally, you can demonstrate different programming languages online using a web-based tool such as https://replit.com or https://vscode.dev.
Note: The code for the samples in slide deck can be found in the text files in this folder.
Have students play the Asphodel Follows Directions game:
http://aka.ms/asphodel
Note: You should play the game before class so you are prepared to walk students through the exercise.
Have students open the code for the game and examine it in Blocks, JavaScript, and Python as examples of different programming languages.
Ask students to find examples of how the program reacts to different inputs.
For example, ask students to find the block which controls the A button press.
They may not understand the code, but they should be able to identify the on A button pressed block.
Discussion		
Introduce students to the following concepts:
Computer program: a sequence of instructions or steps written in a language that can be understood by a computer that will be used by the computer to complete a task or solve a problem.
Programming Language: any set of rules that converts strings, or graphical program elements in the case of visual programming language, to various kinds of machine code output.
Ask students to name any programming languages they are familiar with (even if only the names).
Optional clarification – distinctions between programming languages and markup languages (e.g., HTML).
Lead the group to develop expectations about what aspects of programming might be most challenging and what skills might be most useful to be successful. Some guiding questions:
What are the steps required to write a computer program?
Note: This is essentially developing an algorithm for writing a program.
What knowledge might make writing a program easier?
What might you need to do when writing a computer program that you have never or rarely done before?
What parts of programming are most intimidating or scary?
What are you good at that might help you be a better programmer?
