# Bell ringer

1. From the Bell Ringer, review the questions:\
a. How easy was it to create three new variables?\
b. How easy was it to get three values from the user and display them?\
c. How would you do this if you needed to get and display five values?\
d. What would you do if you needed to get numbers and add them together?\
e. What if you don’t know how many numbers to get?
1. Define an array as a single variable which can hold multiple different values at the same time.\
a. Each value is referenced by an index, which is a number defining where in the array that value is located. Indexes are always numbers, and always sequential; there are no missing index numbers.\
b. Arrays have a property called length, which is the number of items stored in the array.
1. Array indexes all start at zero (0), not one (1).\
a. This can be very confusing for students. You can show them the difference in how we count items (count 1 through 5 on your fingers) and tell them the computer does it differently, starting at 0 (count 0 through 4 on your fingers).\
b. You can also highlight that the 1st item in an array is at index 0, the 2nd item is at index 1, and so on. Show that the index is always one less than the place.\
c. This means that the last item in any array is always one less than the array’s length, since the length is also the number of the last place. This is true for all arrays in MakeCode.
1. Show students where to find all the array blocks—in the Array drawer under Advanced.
1. Discuss the basic things you can do with an array, just like other variables:\
a. Create an array using the set list to array blocks\
b. Change values by using the list set value block\
c. Get values by using the list get value block
1. Some things which are unique to arrays:\
a. Add and remove values at the end of the array\
b. Add and remove values at the beginning of the array\
c. Insert values in the middle of an array using the list insert at block\
d. Remove values from the middle of an array using the list remove at block

1. Discuss how arrays work with loops.\
a. You can use a for loop to look at every index value of an array.\
b. You can get items from an array that way or add items to an array that way as well.\
c. Ask students about how that might have made the Bell Ringer easier or helped them answer the questions about getting and using more than three names.
