# Lab introduction

1. Instruct students that tilemaps have some special blocks which mimic other blocks they have already used.\
a. The on sprite of kind Player overlaps tile event handler works just like the overlaps block they already know, except it fires when a sprite overlaps a specific tile.\
b. The on sprite of kind Player hits wall is similar but fires when a sprite hits a wall.\
c. Both event handlers make the location of the tile that was involved in the collision available as well.
1. Students can also create and use multiple tilemaps.\
a. They can do this by using multiple set tilemap blocks.\
b. There is one big caveat here: the set tilemap block not only creates a new tilemap but also displays it immediately.
1. One way to manage multiple tilemaps is to use a variable to track which tilemap is active.\
a. When they want to change tilemaps, they can change the variable, then create and display the tilemap that corresponds to the new variable value.
1. Normally, you want to change the tilemap when the player walks over a special tile that acts as a portal or doorway between the tilemaps.\
a. The special tile needs to be unique so it can be detected on the tilemap.\
b. Then the player can use the on sprite overlaps tile block to switch tilemaps.
1. Students will also explore Makecode extensions.\
a. Extensions are packages which can provide new blocks for students to use.\
b. These new blocks all appear in new drawers that (depending on the extension) can appear at the top or bottom of the list of drawers.\
c. All the packages they have direct access to are either provided by or approved by Microsoft.
1. One extension the students will explore provides blocks that make animating sprites easier.\
a. The Character Animation extension allows students to define sprite animations which are activated when a sprite moves in a specific direction.\
b. This makes it easier to define animations for moving around the tilemap.
1. Review the Student Guide 5.2 document with the students. Make sure they understand the rubric for the lab.
   
1. Review the questions at the end of each section and the quiz at the end of the lab. 
