# Debrief

## Parts 1 and 2

1. Set mySprite to sprite of kind Player\
a. Toolbox drawer: Sprites\
b. Purpose: Creates a sprite with an image, sets its kind, and gives it a name\
c. Change the name of the sprite by clicking on the arrow next to the name and, from the context menu that appears, select “Rename variable”
2. Renaming Variables\
a. “mySprite” is the default name given to any sprites you create\
b. It is a best practice to name your Sprites descriptive names so you can keep track of them in your code.\
c. To rename your sprite, click on the mySprite drop-down menu and select “Rename variable…”
3. Set mySprite position to x 0 y 0\
a. Toolbox drawer: Sprites\
b. Purpose: Place a sprite at a specific location on the screen.\
c. All numbers are allowed for x and y (including numbers with decimals, zero, and negative numbers). Some numbers, though, cause some or all of the sprite to be “drawn” off-screen.
4. MySprite say “:)”\
a. Toolbox drawer: Sprites\
b. Purpose: Display a dialog bubble near a sprite with a specific message.\
c. In its expanded form, the block can display the message for a specific amount of time and can animate the appearance of the message. The students will learn about milliseconds in Lesson 1.2.
5. Move mySprite with buttons\
a. Toolbox drawer: Controller\
b. Purpose: Allow the player to control the location of a sprite.\
c. The player controls the sprite with the directional pad in the simulator, with a game controller connected to the computer or with the keyboard.\
d. For keyboard users, the player can use the arrow keys. The keys WASD also work.
6. Move mySprite with buttons vx 100 vy 100\
a. Students will learn why they are called vx and vy in a later lab.\
b. The vx and vy values control the speed at which the sprite moves as the player controls it.\
c. To force the sprite to move left and right only, set vy to zero. To force the sprite to move up and down only, set vx to zero.\
d. All numbers are allowed for vx and vy, including numbers with decimals, zero, and negative numbers. Negative numbers could be used in flight simulators (where the vertical controls often are reversed) or simply to add a little bit of chaos. 😊
