Materials & preparation
Word Wall
Set up an ongoing list of terms and definitions that you will add to throughout the course. The Word Wall can be physical—an actual wall in the classroom where you can pin terms and definitions—or it can be digital—a shared document, wiki, OneNote, or web page. You can do both, too! Make sure to maintain the Word Wall by adding definitions after each lesson where new terms are introduced. Encourage students to add any new computing terms they come across to the Word Wall and share with others.
Hidden Figures
You can choose to play a trailer of this movie or reference other resources:
https://airandspace.si.edu/stories/editorial/hidden-figures-and-human-computers
http://www.hiddenfigures.com
https://youtu.be/5wfrDhgUMGI 

Algorithms
The primary activity in this lesson involves students creating an algorithm that will be “run” by an instructor. Students may select their own “tasks” to write the algorithm for, or you may choose to have all students write an algorithm for a single task that you assign.
Suggested algorithms
Make a sandwich (e.g., peanut butter and jelly, ham and cheese)
Brush your teeth
Floss (either the dental process or the dance; you could even leave this up to interpretation by the students)
Draw something (simple, like a house, or complex, like an anime or cartoon character)
How to perform an operation on a smartphone (e.g., take a selfie, send a text message, make a video)
Materials
Lesson 0.2 slide deck (Instructors will need to personalize the slide deck in advance.)
Teaching tips in the Unit 0 overview document
Any materials for suggested algorithms you wish to have on hand:
PB&J Sandwich - bread, peanut butter, jelly, utensils, plates, napkins

Brushing Teeth – toothbrush, toothpaste
Drawing – flipchart, markers
What exactly is an algorithm? Algorithms explained | BBC Ideas (7:54)
Video quiz: See additional curriculum materials accessed from the TEALS dashboard

Additional resources
CodeScty algorithm music video (2:40)
CodeScty algorithm dance challenge (0:32)

