# Lab introduction

1. Define a platformer game.\
a. A platformer is a game where the player must navigate between separate, often disconnected, platforms to reach a goal.\
b. Often, players must jump or climb between platforms.\
c. Usually, players move sideways on the screen, and gravity is a force which pulls the player down to the bottom of the screen.

1. Talk about designing platform levels.\
a. Franz Lanzinger, the author of the book *Classic Game Design* (https://www.amazon.com/dp/1683923855/), has rules for designing game levels. The first three are:\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;i. Keep it simple.\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;ii. Start game play immediately.\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;iii. Start easy, then get harder.\
b. From these, here some guidelines students should keep in mind as they design their platformer level one:\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;i. Make it easy to solve.\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;ii. Let the user see everything the world has to offer.\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;iii. Make the first goodies impossible to miss.\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;iv. Make the first enemies easy to avoid.\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;v. Don’t put obstacles in the way that require perfect jumps or moves to avoid.

1. Define some special tiles used when defining the level.\
a. Ground tiles are tiles that the player can walk on. These tiles are defined as walls in the tilemap editor.\
b. The goal tile is the tile which the player has to reach to end the level.

1. Define gravity.\
a. If students have the background, you can delve into the physics idea of gravity as acceleration.\
b. If not, you can build up to it:\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;i. Gravity pulls things down.\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;ii. As things fall, they move faster and faster.\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;iii. When the speed of something changes, we say it accelerates.\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;iv. You can use a car speeding up as an example.\
c. Explain that sprites have acceleration properties they can set.\
d. Since down on the screen means increasing y values, making the y acceleration (ay) bigger makes things fall to the bottom of the screen.

1. Define jumping and jump speed.\
a. Jumping is trying to move up against gravity.\
b. You have an initial speed moving up, then gravity starts to pull you back down.\
c. Speed is also called velocity, and sprites have a velocity property as well.\
d. Since you are trying to jump up, setting the y velocity (vy) to a negative number will move the sprite up.

1. Talk about game feel.\
a. Students who are gamers should understand game feel.\
b. Game feel can be loosely defined as how the game reacts to the player holding the controller.\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;i. Technically, it’s a combination of how sprites move, how enemies move and react, and what the player sees as they manipulate the game through the controller.\
c. Different games will feel different.\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;i. For example, Sonic the Hedgehog (a real-time immediate feedback game) feels different than Civilization VI (a turn-based strategy game), which feels different than Wordle (a mobile word game).\
d. Getting the feel right can take time; encourage students to keep playing around with the various settings on their games to get the feel the way they want it.

1. Define magic numbers.\
a. These are numbers which are used in a program without any explanation of what they’re for.\
b. It is a best practice to replace magic numbers with a variable, which can be defined at the top of the program.\
c. This allows you to make changes in one spot, write more understandable code, and make changing the code later easier.\
d. Getting rid of magic numbers is important for You-In-The-Future

1. Review the Student Guide 5.3 document with the students. Make sure they understand the rubric for the lab.
   
1. Review the questions at the end of each section and the quiz at the end of the lab. 
