# Bell ringer

1. The bell ringer activity may take longer than five minutes depending on how fast the students play the game. It is not necessary for the students to finish the game all the way through. From the Bell Ringer, review the questions:\
a. How can you tell if an item is not in the array?\
b. Would that answer be different if the array contained a lot more items?\
c. Students may point out the list find index of as a potential search block. They are not wrong; be sure to let them know that.
1. Define searching as any algorithm which can find an item in a collection or tell you if the item is not in the collection.\
a. Good search algorithms can do this quickly.
1. Show how a search works by walking through the example of searching in a library for a book.\
a. Students may point out that the algorithm is needlessly slow, because you are looking at every book in turn.\
b. You can remind them that while humans can scan large chunks of data at a time, they also scan book by book when they get close to where they want to be.\
c. Also remind them this is an analogy to the way computers do it. Computers can’t scan a big chunk of data at once, but they can scan a single piece of data very quickly.
1. Ask how things might be different knowing the library is in a sorted order.\
a. We use authors’ names in the example, but you can use any other order you wish.\
b. The key is that the search can stop once you pass the point where the item should be. Knowing the collection is ordered means it can’t be anywhere past that point.
1. Define a sequential search as any search which looks at each item in a collection in sequence.\
a. The sequence may be ordered or unordered.
1. Walk through the binary search algorithm as an example of a more efficient way to search.\
a. The CS50 video in the slide deck shows how this type of search works using a phone book that was sacrificed in the name of education.\
b. You may also wish to demonstrate this with manipulatives.

1. Define a binary search as any algorithm which divides the collection into two parts to search for the item.
