# Bell ringer

1. From the Bell Ringer, review the questions:\
a. How easy was it to add all the blocks to all the event handlers?\
b. How did students make it easier?\
    i. Some may have duplicated blocks from one event handler and moved them to the other event handlers.\
c. How about changing the sprite say blocks? How easy was that?\
d. Did the technique they used above work for this as well? Did it cut down on the work involved?
1. Introduce the concept of functions.\
a. Define a function as a reusable collection of organized code (blocks in this case) which does one specific thing\
b. Highlight functions students have already used, like sprite say and splash.
1. Run through how a function works:\
a. Code executes from the top down as before.\
b. When a function is called, execution stops there, and the code within the function starts running.\
c. When the function runs out of blocks, execution returns to the place where the function was called. Blocks beneath the function call are run next.
1. Cover the rules for functions\
a. They must have unique names, or else we won’t know which function to call.\
b. They must do one specific thing. Functions which do more than one thing can get confusing and difficult to use.
1. Show where to find functions in the UI – under Advanced in the Functions drawer.\
a. Show how to create a function using the Make a Function button.\
b. Show that after a function has been created, a block is there which the programmer can use to call (run) the function

1. Cover the terminology:\
a. Creating a function is called defining a function.\
b. The container block where students define the function is called the function definition.\
c. Running a function using the block provided is calling the function.\
d. The code which calls a function is the caller or calling function.\
e. Students will experience refactoring code in the lab.
