Activity
The lab has six parts:
Part 1 shows students how to add a simple animation to a sprite being destroyed. It also introduces the term pickup to students.
Part 2 introduces the double jump mechanism. This requires not only tracking the number of jumps but also setting multiple conditions to allow a player to jump.
Instructors may wish to augment this by having students create a function called allowJump which encapsulates the condition checks. This is not called out in the lab.
Part 3 shows students how to jump on an Enemy to destroy it. This is similar to how Mario destroys Goombas in Super Mario Brothers (read more at https://www.mariowiki.com/Goomba).
Part 4 expands on Part 3 to show students how to turn Enemies into other sprite kinds when they are jumped on, similar to how Koopa Troopas are destroyed in Super Mario Brothers.
Part 5 expands on the behavior of Part 4 by introducing flags to delay the transformation of Projectiles back into Enemies.
Part 6 introduces coyote jumps. This allows players to jump for a short time after they have walked off a platform. It is named after Wile E. Coyote, who often doesn’t realize gravity works until sometime after he has run off a cliff.
* * *
Some exercises are left unanswered for students to explore on their own. Encourage students who finish early or who are looking for more challenges to try these ideas:
Making the second part of a double jump less high than the first
Adding a new kind of enemy for Part 4
Picking up the projectile from parts 4 and 5
Using a flag to convert Enemy sprites to Projectile sprites
