# Lab activity

The lab has four parts. All four modify the game from Lesson 2.1 in different ways and build upon one another.

1. Part 1 limits the number of projectiles on the screen at any one time.\
a. The lab introduces one variable to specify the maximum number of projectile sprites, a second variable for tracking currently active sprites, and an if then block to compare them and potentially stop new sprites from being created.\
b. Code is added in many different event handlers, and some students may require guidance to understand why these choices were made. They may also come up with different solutions – encourage this, as long as the game plays as expected!
1. Part 2 allows Enemy sprites to move faster as more of them are destroyed.\
a. This expands on the tracking variable concept used above. It also introduces the idea of constant values, as well as setting sprite values using variables instead of constant values.\
b. Students have to figure out how and by how much to change the Enemy sprite velocity.\
c. Some students may point out that the Enemies Destroyed variable is unnecessary – they are correct! Ask them if they can figure out a way to use it to modify the Enemy Velocity, or some other use for it in their game.
1. Part 3 sets a limit on the speed of the Enemy sprites.\
a. This puts together ideas from both parts 1 and 2 to show how to both adjust and limit sprite characteristics.
1. Part 4 allows players to set a starting game difficulty.\
a. While this part isn’t difficult conceptually, the implementation may be tricky for some students. Be prepared to offer some assistance and scaffolding here.\
b. Students are expected to know how to properly set the variable values based on the difficulty selected.
