# Materials & preparation

Part of the final deliverables include some sort of marketing material. You may wish to provide a day’s worth of class time to allow teams to finalize their presentations.

1. Determine in advance how teams will present their projects.
1. Determine in advance how teams will share their projects with one other.
1. Determine required content for presentations.

Check that each team’s planning documents and/or daily journal notes are up-to-date. Teams can use those documents as a basis for their presentations. If you have specific content that you want all groups to include, then you may want to create a presentation template (e.g., an outline for a script, a PowerPoint template).

Common content that you may require for presentations and questions for which you may require responses:

- Pitch or poster (highlight key features)
- Demo (how it works)
- Reflections on the development process
  - What went well?
  - What didn't go well?
- Lessons learned
- Ideas for future work
- What skills did you use to complete this project?
- What other skills do you wish you had?
- How does your project/product compare to other ones that you have seen?
- How might a project/product like yours impact societal change?
- Do you foresee any unintended or negative consequences of its use?
- How might someone of a different culture, value, or ethical position view your project/product?
  
Some possible formats (depending on the size of your class and the number of groups):

- 40 minutes for individual presentations followed by 10 minutes of “open-floor” time during which students can roam room to look at each other's work science-fair style and answer questions
- Prepare a walk-through video ahead of time, showcasing their project
- Share in pairs of teams, then shift to the next table/chair round-robin or jigsaw style
- Conduct an interview of a few projects at the beginning of class

This may be a good opportunity to invite guests or visitors to your classroom.

Peer feedback is valuable. It helps us grow. This can be done by having a few minutes for Q&A after the presentations. Peers can be invited to complete a short survey. Remind them to put any emotions or hard feelings aside.
