# Lab activity

The lab has four parts, with one bonus part.

**Part 1** shows students how to change the sprite image when the sprite moves in different directions.
- They will use on button press event handlers to detect when the sprite is being moved.
- This technique will be used again in Part 4.

**Part 2** is where students will create an animation manually.
- This will use their knowledge of arrays and variables to build the frame list and select the current frame.
- It also uses the on game update every x ms block, as well as an if true then block to implement a looping animation.

**Part 3** replaces all the work students did in Part 2 with the animate mySprite block.
- By doing Part 2 first, they see what is required to make an animation.
- This helps them understand what all the parts of the animate mySprite block do and why they are there.

**Part 4** introduces named animations.
- Students will create four named animations and attach them to their player sprite.
- They then activate those animations when the sprite moves.
- This can be a long section, since named animations requires many blocks to implement.

**The bonus section** shows a different way to detect sprite movement.
- Students are shown the velocity x and velocity y attributes and how to use a multi-level if then else block to figure out where the player is moving.
- This also uses the on game update block to make this determination every game update cycle.
- If students have time, they should go through this section, or it may be omitted.
