Bell ringer
From the Bell Ringer, review the questions:
How could you make the sprite face the way they are moving?
How could you make the sprite move like it’s walking when it’s being moved?
Define animation as a technique for making still images appear to be moving.
By changing the still image quickly enough, you no longer see the still image but an illusion of motion.
Define the still images being used in an animation as frames. Each still image is a frame in the overall animation.
All computer animation is done this way by changing a series of frames fast enough to create the illusion of motion.
You may want to find a flip book to show students how this might work without a computer involved.
Every animation needs four things:
A set of still images to display as frames
An indication of which frame to show right now
A time delay between frames
Whether to start over again or not
Manual animation can be done with what the students know now:
The set of frames is handled with an array
Which frame to show is a variable index into that array. After every time delay is done, you increment the index so the next frame is shown.
The time delay can be handled using the on game update every x ms block.
Starting over again (called looping) means using an if true then block to check if the variable index is at the end of the array. If it is, you set it back to zero to start over.
Students will learn how to define an animation and name it. This is called a named animation.
Named animations can be run at any time in the program.
For example, if a named animation called WalkLeft is defined, then the student can play that animation whenever the sprite moves to the left.
Students will need to install the extension called animation in order to complete this part.
