# Bell ringer

There is a lot to cover in this instruction period. You may want to split this up into two days, or have the students follow along by working through Part 1 of the lab as you go through the slide deck.

1. Review the Bell Ringer exercise.\
a. Ask students what they need to get and store a guess from the player. They should answer:\
    i. an ask block, and \
   ii. a variable to store the number\
b. Then ask what they need to determine if the player’s guess matched the random number. They should come up with a way to check or compare that value with the random number.\
c. You can list their responses on the whiteboard and highlight these if they come up.
1. Introduce the concept of the conditional statement as a way to check the value of a variable or expression, and then do something based on that check.\
a. Define a condition as an expression which compares two things to each other. Some examples of conditions are:\
    i. Comparing two numbers to see if they are equal\
   ii. Comparing the result of a mathematical equation to see if it is zero
  iii. Comparing data entered by the user with data created by the program\
b. Stress that conditions are always either true or false. For example, the condition 2+2 = 5 is false, and the condition 4 ÷ 2 = 2 is true.
These values are called Boolean values, named after George Boole.
1. Define conditional statements (also called if statements or if-then statements) as code blocks which check a condition and run different code blocks depending on whether the condition is true or false.\
a. Show the if true then block. Point out that the true part is where the condition goes. If the condition is true, then blocks in the true section are run.\
b. If the condition is false, then the blocks in the true section are skipped and the next block is run.
1. Define the else clause as an extension of the if true then block which contains code which is run when the condition is false.\
a. Tell students this is useful when you must do one thing if the condition is true, but something completely different if the condition is false.
1. Show students the Logic drawer. Tell them this is where to find all the blocks which deal with conditions, conditional statements, and true or false values.
1. Show students the if true then block and how it works. Point out:\
a.  where the condition is evaluated, and\
b. where the blocks which run when the condition is true are placed. 
1. Show students where in the Logic drawer to find the conditions they can use to replace true in the if then block.
2. Show students how to add an else section to their if then block. Explain that the blocks in the else section only run if the condition is false. Show them where to put blocks which will run when the condition is false.

3. Students may ask about how to evaluate more than one condition.\
a. Show them how they can add more condition checks by clicking the plus button again.\
b. Inform them this is called a cascading if, because each condition cascades down to the next one, like a waterfall.\
c. Cascading if statements are common in programming.
